- Hello, Scott.
- You're Angela Cassidy's
son, right?
Your mother's still out there.
- There's a file at the
bureau's Washington office.
It's labeled "Hutchinson."
I need it.
- I'm ordering you
to cease and desist
from any more
personal investigation.
- You're a traitor.
You sold secrets
to the Russians,
and then you just...
disappeared.
- My country asked me
to sacrifice you.
I love you.
I'll be in touch.
[dramatic music]
♪
- [sighs]
- Eh?
♪
Ah.
- Two.
- Ah!
- [speaking Polish
over radio]
- Go. Just go.
♪
- Four-niner Charlie Delta,
you are cleared for takeoff.
- [speaking Polish
over radio]
♪
- Who were you expecting?
- An old friend.
And I'll probably
never see him again.
♪
What the hell is--
- Remember, I'm German,
so no need
for any excessively emotional
reactions.
Oh.
- What's goin' on?
- It's Jaeger's last case
with the Fly Team.
- Yes, I know.
Do not remind me.
I'm still trying
to talk her out of it.
- You'll be just fine
without me.
- Impossible.
- So who's replacing you?
- I'll have to figure that out.
- You get to choose?
- Yes.
Part of my promotion
at Europol included--
- Oh, my God,
you were promoted!
[both laugh]
That's amazing.
- Cam.
Cam, we have a case
to run for Scott.
- Yeah.
- Shall we?
- Yes.
♪
- Private aircraft went down
three hours ago
just after departure
at an airfield
outside of Chelm, Poland,
near the border of Belarus.
On board were the two pilots,
both American;
a British flight attendant;
and the owner of the jet,
Greg Hutchinson, also American.
This was not a case
of catastrophic
mechanical failure.
Plane had just undergone
safety inspections,
and its maintenance record
was impeccable.
Polish aviation officials
report that witnesses
on the ground, radar signals,
and testimony
of other aviators in the area
indicate a contrail leading
to the plane from the ground,
highly suggestive
of a surface-to-air missile
being the proximate cause.
Hutchinson was
a wealthy industrialist
who had been working
in Eastern Europe and Russia
for the last 15 years.
He left behind
a wife and two kids.
- All right, get everything
you can from the Polish police,
and we'll decide
our next move from there.
♪
[sighs]
- Why'd the name Hutchinson
resonate with you?
- [sighs]
When I was in contact
with my mom,
she asked
for the Hutchinson file.
- What was in it?
- I never gained access
to the real file.
- Well, there's more than
one Hutchinson in the world.
[cell phone chimes]
♪
What's that?
- I'll be back.
♪
[indistinct chatter]
[sighs]
♪
[cell phone ringing]
Mom.
- Hey.
- Are you all right?
- I have to be quick.
Hutchinson's plane,
you're looking into it?
- Uh, yes.
- The key to the whole thing
is a man named Pavel Novikoff.
He was supposed to be
on the plane.
- Where are you?
- Find Novikoff.
I have to go.
I'm in danger.
- No, no, Mo--Mom.
[sighs]
[tense music]
♪
What'd you find?
- So Pavel Novikoff leads
the Foreign Intelligence
Service, Russia's CIA,
works on producing
deep-cover agents.
He's basically like the czar
of all the top spies in Russia.
- Further intel on Novikoff
has him involved
in intimidating journalists,
election interference,
political engineering,
and clandestine
military operations.
- But most important of all,
he's inner circle
at the Kremlin--
one of maybe a half dozen
advisors at the top.
- Why are we looking
into this guy?
- I got a tip.
- Okay, what would Novikoff's
connection to Hutchinson be?
- If Hutchinson was making
big money in Russia,
maybe Novikoff
was his protection
for the appropriate price,
of course.
- We have possible suspects
for the plane bombing.
Polish investigators
had these two
crossing the Belarus border,
utilizing aliases
the day before the attack,
hanging around the airport,
and then crossing back
hours after.
Search of alias info indicates
they're Vladislav and
Stepan Pavlovic--brothers.
The bureau's intel has them
flagged as Russian Mercaders.
That's Kremlin slang
for "assassins."
- Named after Ramón Mercader,
the communist who killed
Leon Trotsky in Mexico in 1940
with an ice ax.
- You got a sec?
- Mm.
♪
- [sighs]
She's been out of your life
for 15 years.
She asks
for the Hutchinson file,
and then two months later,
he gets blown out of the sky?
Scott, can you really
trust your mom?
[cell phone rings]
- [sighs]
Forrester.
Yeah, I remember.
I know where it is.
I'll be there.
That was Michael Rafferty,
case officer for the CIA.
He wants to meet me.
- Now the agency's involved?
- I'm just gonna hear him out.
- Scott--Scott.
Be really careful on this.
♪
- Rafferty.
- Why are you looking
into Pavel Novikoff?
[scoffs] Come on,
you know all the keystrokes
on your work computer are--
- Are logged. I know.
I got a tip
from a confidential source.
- Your mom?
Yeah, that whole
Hutchinson file thing?
That was an integrity test
on you by your mother
to see if you would do
her bidding, and you did.
- I notified OPR
when she reached out.
- No, you asked
for the case file,
then had a change of heart
and called in OPR,
yes or no?
- What do you need, Mike?
- You're being played, Scott.
If this wasn't your mom,
you'd see it
from a million miles away.
- And what is
in the Hutchinson file
that is of interest to her
in the first place?
- It sure as hell wasn't
so she could clear her name.
It was Hutchinson's chumminess
with Novikoff
that was of interest to her.
She wanted details
on Hutchinson
so she could find a way to
expose Novikoff at the Kremlin.
But Novikoff ran before
she could make her power move.
- Why does she want Novikoff?
- He grew a conscience,
gave the wrong advice
to the wrong people.
Now he's out of favor
at the Kremlin and on the run.
And your mom,
as a Russian loyalist,
is trying to find him
and kill him
and use you to facilitate it.
- My own involvement
started in this in Kraków
when you gave me
a surveillance photo of her.
You must've known
that I was gonna look into her.
[chuckles]
So is that what you wanted?
So are you her handler, hmm?
You lost touch,
you started to panic,
wanted to use me
as your bloodhound?
- Yes,
and I thought I knew her well
till she fully betrayed me
and the United States
and became
fully absorbed in Russia.
Novikoff was the one
who recruited and turned her,
by the way.
- So if he really is
on the run,
wouldn't it be
in the best interest
for the Americans to bring him
in out of the cold?
I mean, he's in
the top lineup at the Kremlin.
All those communications
are face-to-face,
"Godfather"-style.
We could set back Russian
penetration efforts a decade
with what's rattling around
in that man's head.
- Yeah, that's not
for you to determine...
[cell phone chimes]
Nor contemplate.
♪
Do you remember the oath you
took when you became an agent?
Maybe you forgot.
"I will support
and defend the Constitution
"of the United States
against all enemies,
foreign and domestic."
Now, nowhere in there
is there a carve-out
that if your mom
becomes a spy for Russia,
you can adopt some--
some situational ethics
and everyone will let it slide.
[sighs]
Okay, loop in the bureau's
Counterintel folks.
Hand over everything you have.
Don't do anything on your own.
If you don't wanna
do this for your country,
Scott, do it for yourself,
because your job--
your freedom--may depend on it.
♪
[cell phone ringing]
- Hey,
Novikoff is in Pula, Croatia.
You need to get there
and find him.
- Why?
Mom, what is going on?
- He wants to turn,
but he only trusts me,
and I only trust you.
You can't imagine how big
this would be for us.
- Who's "us"?
- The United States.
The Kremlin will do
anything to stop him,
and anyone who helps him
will be considered
acceptable collateral damage.
- Wait, so you're in direct
communication with Novikoff?
- Yes.
- Where are you right now?
Are you okay?
- Stay safe.
♪
[cell phone ringing]
- [sighs]
Yeah.
- Legat Dandridge wants
the whole team in his office
ASAP.
- Great.
- My office is available, so--
[knock at door]
Agent Forrester.
Ken Dandridge.
Nice to meet you in person.
- It's nice
to meet you as well.
What happened to Legat Padilla?
- Reassigned.
Great gal
but in over her head out here.
Bureau wanted a legat with
more of an active presence.
- Hmm.
- I was just getting an update
from your colleagues
on where you're at
with the Hutchinson case.
- Okay.
- Might be worth a trip
to Poland to check out
the crash site,
conduct some interviews--
- Legat Warsaw
has a team on it.
- We've also been looking
into the two brothers
suspected
of taking down the plane,
Vladislav and Stepan Pavlovic.
- Main suspects--
only suspects, really.
- Good.
Good, good, good.
I've been getting calls
from some high-level people--
various agencies,
including our own,
asking about our knowledge
of a Pavel Novikoff.
Can anyone think of why
I might be getting those calls?
- I've heard tidbits,
nothing to move on just yet.
- And why am I hearing about it
from them and not you?
- Well, because things
are moving pretty quickly, Ken,
and my team is doing everything
to find who blew four people
out of the sky last night.
So...that's why.
- Fair enough.
Stay on the case,
but stay on Hutchinson.
He was the target, okay?
Don't overthink this.
Don't start getting pulled
in all these different
directions.
Head back to the off-site.
Stay put.
Investigate from there
until directed otherwise.
- You got it.
♪
- Where's Forrester?
- He was gonna meet us here.
- Katrin, where is he?
- Gone.
♪
[cell phone rings]
[dramatic music]
♪
[indistinct chatter]
- Hi.
- Hey.
- Scott Forrester.
- Astrid Janssen. Please.
- So...you're with
the Dutch National Police?
- Yes, assigned to Europol.
I've been covering Croatia
for the last two years,
and I have
a very good relationship
with the Croatian police
here in Pula.
- Well, Katrin Jaeger,
she speaks very highly of you.
- And you as well.
Double espresso?
One sugar?
- How'd you guess?
- I texted Katrin.
- Hmm, makes sense.
- I have no intel on Novikoff,
and there's nothing
to indicate he's in Croatia.
Not that anyone would be aware,
considering
his chosen profession.
- Mm.
- And there's nothing
in terms of family, friends,
or business associates here,
although Croatia and Russia
have long had
a practical cooperation.
- Has the Russian embassy
had any new guests,
or have you heard any
heightened state of activity
or chatter coming from there?
- We haven't.
Are you sure
you got the right country?
Croatia gets mistaken
for Slovenia all the time.
- No, I'm pretty sure
I'm supposed to be here.
- Europol and Croatia
would also have a keen interest
in locating Novikoff--
alive, preferably.
So I'll provide
any help you need,
covertly, of course,
and unless and until you prove
to be unreliable or misled,
at which case,
you'll be on your own.
- That's fair enough.
Do you have a place
I could work out of--
off-books, secured comms?
- Come with me.
♪
After you.
- Nice.
- This is used
by the Croatian Police
for undercover drug ops.
- And what reason did you use
to sign out for it?
- I didn't.
Luka, the harbormaster, and I
are in the same
handball league.
- [chuckles]
Works for me.
- This is for when you and I
need to communicate.
- Great.
[sighs]
[keyboard keys clicking]
- I've got Forrester.
- Hey.
- Where are you?
- Pula, Croatia.
- Because?
- Because we have
a very small window
to find out who killed
all those aboard that plane
and to secure
a major asset in Novikoff.
But this has to stay
in-house for now.
We cannot escalate this
up the food chain,
or they will
overwhelm this place
and everything
will go sideways.
I have a local cell phone.
I will text you so that you
can contact me with updates.
- You realize the position
you're putting us all in?
- I do.
- Is Novikoff in Croatia?
- My source says he is,
or he's headed here.
- Okay, so I looked into
Hutchinson's last 24 hours.
He was being very careful
to cover his tracks.
But he did leave
some digital dust behind.
He was in communication
with someone
repeatedly
throughout the day.
A John Doe alias
was added to the manifest.
Clearly,
he was expecting someone.
If that someone was Novikoff,
there's no telling why
he didn't get on that plane.
But the hit team
knew about it
and assumed
he was on the flight.
- Anything on that hit team?
- Nothing after being ID'd
as suspects in Poland,
and Legat Warsaw has not
been transparent with info.
- Does Hutchinson have
any connections to Croatia?
Let's look for one.
If Novikoff is a void,
then maybe we can find him
through Hutchinson.
There has to be a reason
why Novikoff
is either headed to
or in Croatia.
- Hutchinson did spend time
in Pula the last 15 years.
He'd always stay
at the Hotel San.
- All right,
I'll head there now.
- Why is your mom
having all this
go through you and only you?
- She...trusts me, I guess.
- And what if Novikoff
is a double agent
only making it look
like he's on the run?
- Then we'll find out
soon enough.
- And if your mom
is lying about all this
or has bad intel?
- Then you'll be the new head
of the Fly Team,
and I will be
your first arrest.
- Legat Dandridge
is on his way up
along with General Paul Finley
from the Paris case.
- Jamie.
They can't know,
not yet.
- Scott, why are you
putting this
all on the line for her?
- Because she's my mom.
♪
- Where's Agent Forrester?
- I don't know.
- So he's not here?
- No.
- Not in this building
or not in Budapest?
- Well, not in this building.
- If anyone here is cooperating
with Agent Forrester
and withholding information,
may I suggest you start
updating your
LinkedIn profiles?
- We all know
the rules and protocol,
no one more than Forrester.
He must have a good reason
to go about this the way he is.
But he will be in contact
when the time is right.
- You're the ex-girlfriend,
I take it?
♪
- Okay, listen,
it's not my place
to speak for everyone.
So if any of you have a problem
with how we're doing this,
how Forrester is,
raise your hand,
or reach out
to Legat Dandridge privately.
♪
[cell phone ringing]
- Hey.
- You in Pula?
- Yeah.
- Okay, good.
I'll try to get you
a location on Novikoff.
- You'll try?
Mom, I have risked--
I have risked everything
to be here.
- I know.
I am doing everything
that I can,
but no one else
can be part of this,
or he will get spooked
and disappear,
voluntarily or otherwise.
♪
- Your tradecraft sucks.
- I'm not trying
to hide from you.
I'm trying to help you
from getting killed.
- I'm doing just fine.
- Oh, yeah?
Headed to the Hotel San?
Don't bother.
That's stale intel anyway.
- Well, then why don't we
join forces
and play our cards faceup
just like we did in Kraków?
I do not understand
why you are so resistant.
- Because this is out
of your league and purview.
You're being played
by a Russian spy.
You're gonna screw
this whole thing up
to a fare-thee-well
if you don't stop trying to--
[gunshots]
[people screaming]
♪
- Get in!
[gunshots]
♪
- [speaking Dutch]
[sighs]
I'll run interference
with local police and Europol
for as long as I can,
but they'll want answers
about everything soon.
- If you need to bail, I--
I understand.
- I owe it to Katrin.
[dramatic music]
♪
- Yeah.
[sighs]
[keyboard keys clicking]
[device rings]
- I've got Forrester.
♪
- What's wrong?
- Rafferty was killed
right in front of me.
- Did you see who did it?
- The hit team, two brothers.
I saw them both.
- Scott, we have
to kick this upstairs.
♪
- [sighs]
Yeah.
Do it.
- Loop in Dandridge and Finley.
- Yup.
- Novikoff?
♪
- No sign of him yet.
[cell phone chimes]
♪
- Scott.
- I'll be in touch.
[keyboard key clicks]
♪
- [speaking Croatian]
- Um...
- English?
- Yes.
- May I help you?
- I'm just taking
a look around.
Thank you.
♪
[gun cocking]
[grunting]
- [sighs]
Hello, Scott.
[scoffs]
Now what?
♪
- Local police
use this apartment
for prostitution stings.
Should be clear until tonight.
- It won't take that long.
Sit down.
♪
[laptop rings]
I have Novikoff.
♪
Listen, I do not wanna go
through the Croatian Police
or any embassies.
I wanna hand him off
to Dandridge and Finley,
get his ass back
to the United States
as soon as possible.
- Okay, just sit tight
for five minutes,
and we'll call back
with an exfiltration plan.
- Copy.
- Thank you.
I know you've gone
to great risk to find me.
- Why did you run?
- I'm against the war.
It was the last straw,
as you say.
- What are you doing here
in Pula?
- I was supposed to meet
Greg Hutchinson on his plane
in Poland,
but my car got a flat tire
five kilometers away.
I missed that flight, and...
well, you know what happened.
Came here to Pula
because I have a safe house
through my counterintel work.
I was trying to arrange
boat travel to Italy
and figure out
what to do from there
but ran out of time.
- How do you know my mother?
- I recruited her
to spy for Russia.
But at a certain point,
she flipped back
and became a double agent.
I'm not sure exactly when,
but I do know why:
you.
I grew to confide in her,
to love her,
if I am being honest,
though it was unrequited.
When I told her
I wanted to leave Russia,
she revealed
her true status with the U.S.
and vowed to help me.
- So her loyalty lies
with the United States?
- Oh, yes.
- Where is she now?
- I have no idea.
- Do you know them?
- Of them.
Hit squad, top-shelf.
- Who sent them?
- Kremlin, of course.
- If you're in contact
with my mother,
you think she can reach out,
call them off?
- Not her department.
[laptop rings]
[keyboard key clicks]
- Okay, Finley and Dandridge
will be at the
Velanera airstrip with a jet.
They're heading there now.
Can you get Novikoff there?
- Yeah, we'll be there.
[laptop snaps shut]
Let's go.
♪
Let's do everything we can not
to get you killed, all right?
♪
- [laughs]
- That's funny to you?
- Ironic.
All the years, all the agents,
all the planning--
each time they were ready
to venture out,
I'd leave them
with one final warning,
one final piece of advice:
from this moment on,
death's embrace will always
be right over your shoulder.
- Hmm.
- I'd be a hypocrite
to fear it now.
- How about the five people
who were killed because of you?
They didn't get the chance
to hear that little speech.
Get down.
- It was terrible,
what happened to them.
- I sure as hell
hope you're worth it.
[cell phone chimes]
- She's here.
- Who?
- Your mom.
- In Pula?
[tires squealing]
- Yes.
- [yells]
[people shouting]
- [grunting]
- Get him out of here.
[suspenseful music]
- We gotta move.
- I broke my arm.
- Move your ass.
♪
[both grunting]
Gun!
He has a gun! Get down!
[gunshots, people screaming]
- I got him. Go!
- [grunting]
♪
- Go, go.
- Empty.
[groans]
- Sit down.
- [screams]
- [grunting]
♪
Hold it there.
Put pressure on it.
Give me your scarf.
- [coughs]
- This is gonna hurt.
- Okay.
- On three.
- One.
[bones crack]
[screams]
♪
- All right, you got it?
All right. Okay.
All right.
♪
[alarm ringing, siren wailing]
Almost there.
- Okay.
- All right, okay.
Okay, okay.
- Wait.
- You got it?
- [whimpers] Yeah.
- Over your head.
Over your head.
- Yes, yes, yes.
[breathes sharply]
- All right.
All right.
- Yeah.
- All right, hey. Look at me.
We need to move.
We gotta move.
- Can't they just
pick us up here, hmm?
- What do you want,
stretch limo, party van,
any preference?
- Champagne.
- Come on.
Get up. Move.
- Okay--ah, bastard.
God.
[groans]
♪
- You got it?
- You remind me of your mother.
- Yeah.
♪
[siren wailing]
[cell phone rings]
Hey.
- Novikoff good?
- He's good enough.
- Your next left,
take it and go two blocks.
There's a grey Skoda with
tinted windows parked there.
Keys and comm are in it.
- Got it.
♪
- Whoa!
[gunshots]
[all grunting]
♪
- [screams]
- [growls]
♪
- [gagging]
- That's us.
[indistinct chatter]
♪
Will you get in the car?
Okay.
♪
- [groans]
[horn honking]
- Come on!
♪
[line ringing]
[cell phone chimes]
[horn honking]
- Scott.
- Hey.
- We have your location.
- Dandridge and Finley
are at the airstrip waiting.
- You're four minutes away,
straight ahead.
- I'll be there in three.
- Your mom wants to meet.
- What?
- Yeah, she wants
to escape with us.
She's ten kilometers back...
that way.
[panting]
♪
- [breathing heavily]
[dramatic music]
- Whatever you decide,
I'll understand.
♪
- Yeah.
Put your seat belt on.
[tires squealing]
♪
[horn honks]
- [yelling in Croatian]
♪
- [yells]
[horn honking]
♪
[tires squealing]
- Wait, wait, wait,
wait, wait.
♪
[tires squealing]
- [grunts]
♪
[line rings]
- Go for Janssen.
- It's Forrester.
One of the brothers
is right on my ass--
black Audi.
- I have your location.
Stay on the line.
♪
- Hold on.
[grunts]
[horn honks]
♪
[indistinct chatter]
- That worked.
I'm clear.
- Good.
No sign of the brother, though.
♪
[cell phone chimes]
- Hmm.
- What?
♪
- It means "crestfallen"
in Russian.
It's a code.
- For what?
♪
- She's been compromised.
And don't try to contact her.
♪
I'm sorry.
[indistinct chatter]
♪
- His arm is broken.
Otherwise...intact.
- My name is Pavel Novikoff.
I'm requesting asylum
with the United States,
and I will fully cooperate.
♪
- I'm General Paul Finley,
Department of Defense.
I'm here to inform you
that America
is the land of opportunity,
and we will give you
the opportunity
to cooperate fully.
Then we'll decide if you've
earned the right to asylum.
- Understood.
♪
- That's a major asset
you just delivered.
Whatever damage your mother
inflicted on our country,
you just made up for it
a hundredfold.
- Great work, Agent.
♪
- You know,
the last time a plane took off
with the assumption
Novikoff was on board,
didn't make it very far.
- I've arranged for a sortie
of F-15 Strike Eagles
carrying live ordnance
to accompany that jet.
Novikoff is getting back
to D.C.
Trust me.
- My mom helped me
bring in Novikoff--
helped us.
So I want you
and everyone else
to be aware of everything
that that implies.
- Implications, Agent,
aren't what we--
- When Angela Cassidy tells us
her true allegiance
in person,
that will be
the sole determinant
as to our interpretation
of your mom.
♪
- You know the truth.
We all do.
♪
[sighs]
You know, on this job,
there's a lot of...
awful things
we see and experience.
But the amazing thing is,
you drop into a distant part
of the world,
far away from home,
meet a fellow
law enforcement officer,
shake hands,
come to an agreement,
and within ten seconds
of meeting them,
you trust them with your life.
And I want you to know
that I would have done
anything--anything--
to save yours.
- I had
a small speech prepared.
- [laughs]
- I think yours is better.
- What's "cheers" in Dutch?
- Proost.
♪
[cell phone ringing]
Mom?
- You got him to safety?
- Yes.
- Thank you.
- Where are you now?
- This was never
gonna work out.
- Mom, don't disappear
on me again.
Let me help you.
- Scott...
forget about me.
This time, I mean it.
I love you.
- Mom.
♪
- Hey.
- Hey, Tank.
Hey, buddy.
Hey.
- Hey.
- Welcome back.
♪
- Thank you, guys.
Thank you for all your help
and all your trust.
- Good to have you back.
- Yeah.
I know I put you guys over
a barrel on this one, and I'm--
- No need to explain.
- Novikoff landed in D.C.
All sorted out.
- That's good to hear.
And your colleague at Europol,
Janssen,
she was aces.
- As I expected.
She's on my short list
for my replacement.
- Your mom?
- Back into the mist.
♪
Anything on him?
- No.
We have his photo
out everywhere.
Could still be
holed up in Croatia.
♪
- Well...
the only thing left to do
is to throw a proper
going-away party.
[indistinct chatter]
- I was like, "Oh, my God,
he's in jail."
[laughter]
Okay, everybody gets to tell
their favorite Jaeger story.
- Oh, no, please,
don't do that.
- Come on!
- That's ridiculous.
Oh, my God.
- They haven't heard it.
Okay, I'm gonna go anyways.
So the first time I met her,
I was super nervous.
She walks over to me,
and I have my hand extended,
and she smiles,
and I had a price tag
sticking out of my collar,
and I forgot to cut it off.
She cut it off,
smoothed out my collar,
and introduced herself.
- Totally harmless,
I would say.
- My favorite memory
is when you told me
you'd always be there for me
as a friend and as a colleague.
I'm gonna miss you, Katrin.
- I miss you all already.
- We all will.
- Oh, really,
you're standing up?
- Yes!
- Oh, my stomach hurts.
[laughter]
Okay.
- Cheers.
- Proost.
all: Proost.
[indistinct chatter]
♪
- Cheers.
all: Cheers.
- Proost.
all: Proost.
[laughter]
[indistinct chatter]
♪
[wolf howls]